Add more context to `externalTrafficPolicy=local` caveats. (#12779)
istio/istio.io: content/en/docs/tasks/security/authorization/authz-ingress/index.md

{{< tab name="Network Load Balancer" category-value="network" >}}

> If you are using a TCP/UDP network load balancer that preserves the client IP address (AWS Network Load Balancer, GCP External Network Load Balancer, Azure Load Balancer) or you are using Round-Robin DNS, then you can also preserve the client IP inside Kubernetes by bypassing kube-proxy and preventing it from sending traffic to other nodes.  **However, for production deployments it is strongly recommended to deploy an ingress gateway pod on every node** if you enable `externalTrafficPolicy: Local`. Any node that receives NLB ingress traffic and doesn’t have a local ingress gateway to handle it will drop the traffic if `externalTrafficPolicy: Local` is enabled. This creates a situation where **only** nodes with an active ingress gateway pod will be able to accept and distribute incoming NLB traffic to the rest of the cluster, creating potential ingress traffic bottlenecks. See [Source IP for Services with `Type=NodePort`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tutorials/services/source-ip/#source-ip-for-services-with-type-nodeport)

Reviewer: LBs health check the nodes though, right? So is the "deploy to all nodes" suggestion so that you don't have downtime while the healthchecks are propogating or something?

Author: Yeah lemme reword that, you're correct - the fundamental problem is that with `local` you can only accept LB traffic on the subset of nodes with a gateway, regardless of whether the LB actually tries to send traffic to them or not.

Reviewer 2: sorry, but it's not practical (e.g. several replicas will address SPOF) even suggest to run gateway at every node ):  maybe better to suggest this only if user cannot setup `local`

Author: `several replicas will address SPOF` - that would address SPOF of the gateway pod on the node, but not of the node(s), correct?

`it's not practical to even suggest to run gateway at every node` - Agree, it sort of depends on how many nodes you have and what you consider "good enough" for your deployment. The existing docs are making that "every node" claim - if we want to modify that we can, but at the end of the day the answer for "how many" is "it depends on your deployment".

Reviewer: AFAIK you can run on a subset of nodes and just have it deployed to all of them there. The issue is only going from N -> 0 pods on a node.

That may be a GCP specific thing though

Reviewer 2: we usualy deploy Gateways that spread across nodes that address node problem

Author: @eghobo removed the "all nodes" guidance in favor of "multiple nodes"

Reviewer 2: @bleggett looks good, maybe "it is strongly recommended to deploy an ingress gateway pod on on different nodes"

> If you are using a TCP/UDP network load balancer that preserves the client IP address (AWS Network Load Balancer, GCP External Network Load Balancer, Azure Load Balancer) or you are using Round-Robin DNS, then you can also preserve the client IP inside Kubernetes by bypassing kube-proxy and preventing it from sending traffic to other nodes.  **However, for production deployments it is strongly recommended to deploy an ingress gateway pod to multiple nodes** if you enable `externalTrafficPolicy: Local`. Otherwise, this creates a situation where **only** nodes with an active ingress gateway pod will be able to accept and distribute incoming NLB traffic to the rest of the cluster, creating potential ingress traffic bottlenecks and reduced internal load balancing capability, or even complete loss of ingress traffic to the cluster if the subset of nodes with ingress gateway pods go down. See [Source IP for Services with `Type=NodePort`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tutorials/services/source-ip/#source-ip-for-services-with-type-nodeport)
> for more information. Update the ingress gateway to set `externalTrafficPolicy: Local` to preserve the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you are using a TCP/UDP network load balancer that preserves the client IP address (AWS Network Load Balancer, GCP External Network Load Balancer, Azure Load Balancer) or you are using Round-Robin DNS, then you can use the `externalTrafficPolicy: Local` setting to also preserve the client IP inside Kubernetes by bypassing kube-proxy and preventing it from sending traffic to other nodes.

{{< warning >}}
For production deployments it is strongly recommended to **deploy an ingress gateway pod to multiple nodes** if you enable `externalTrafficPolicy: Local`. Otherwise, this creates a situation where **only** nodes with an active ingress gateway pod will be able to accept and distribute incoming NLB traffic to the rest of the cluster, creating potential ingress traffic bottlenecks and reduced internal load balancing capability, or even complete loss of ingress traffic to the cluster if the subset of nodes with ingress gateway pods go down. See [Source IP for Services with `Type=NodePort`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tutorials/services/source-ip/#source-ip-for-services-with-type-nodeport) for more information.
{{< /warning >}}

 Update the ingress gateway to set `externalTrafficPolicy: Local` to preserve the
```
